President Xi Jinping, also general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, visits national political advisors from the Revolutionary Committee of the Chinese Kuomintang, the sector of science and technology, and the sector of environment and resources, who are attending the second session of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference in Beijing, March 6, 2024. Xi participated in their joint group meeting, and heard their comments and suggestions. [Photo/Xinhua]
Ten years ago, when President Xi Jinping held a banquet for world leaders attending the 22nd APEC Informal Leaders' Meeting in Beijing, he mentioned "APEC blue", a gag used by some internet users to describe the clear air above the Chinese capital they fear could only be temporary.

He assured the world leaders: "We will do a better job at protecting the environment in the future. I hope and believe that, with persistent efforts, the APEC blue will be here to stay."

On Wednesday, as the president joined national political advisers to discuss major issues of the nation, he mentioned APEC blue again.

Xi highlighted the remarkable changes in the capital's air quality and the monumental shift in the nation's environmental protection efforts over the past decade after hearing insights shared by Huang Miansong, a manager from the Beijing Capital Eco-Environment Protection Group.

With China's unwavering emphasis on environmental and ecological protection, the revenue from Huang's company grew from 3.38 billion yuan ($470.01 million) in 2012 to 22.16 billion yuan in 2022, with its employees almost doubled during the period.

"This epitomizes the development of China's ecological and environmental protection sector," Huang told the president.

President Xi Jinping, also general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, visits national political advisors from the Revolutionary Committee of the Chinese Kuomintang, the sector of science and technology, and the sector of environment and resources, who are attending the second session of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference in Beijing, March 6, 2024. Xi participated in their joint group meeting, and heard their comments and suggestions. [Photo/Xinhua]
Led by Xi's overarching vision that lush mountains and lucid waters are invaluable assets, China became the world's first developing nation to roll out across-the-board measures to tackle air pollution caused by PM2.5 particulate matter with a diameter of 2.5 micrometers or less in 2013.

China has been the country with the fastest improvement in air quality in the world, with its average concentration of the PM2.5 nationwide decreasing from 46 micrograms per cubic meter in 2015 to 30 mcg/cubic meter in 2023, according to the Ministry of Ecology and Environment.

In Beijing, the concentration decreased from 89.5 mcg/cubic meter in 2013 to 32 mcg/cubic meter in 2023.

The number of days with heavy air pollution went down from 58 days to only eight days during the period.

The nation's treatment of air pollution directly and indirectly stimulated investments of about 4 trillion yuan between 2013 and 2023, leading to a GDP growth of 5 trillion yuan.

Xi highlighted the importance of science and technology in tackling pollution, giving the example of how the use of new energy vehicles has empowered environmental and ecological protection.

Official statistics showed that in 2023, China produced 9.58 million and sold 9.49 million new energy vehicles and exported 1.2 million new energy vehicles, marking a 77.6 percent year-on-year increase and maintaining its position as the world's leading NEV exporter.

The president signaled on Wednesday there will be no letup in the national drive to combat air pollution. The draft national budget plan, submitted to national lawmakers for deliberation on Tuesday, said the nation will allocate funding of 34 billion yuan for air pollution prevention and control, aiming to offer continuous support for clean heating in northern regions during winter.

In his report to the 20th National Congress of the Communist Party of China, Xi said the nation will control pollutants in a better-coordinated way, and severe air pollution will be eliminated.

"As long as we are making progress, we should maintain our orientation," Xi told the political advisers on Wednesday. "Instead of merely pointing fingers, we should take real actions."

He said the treatment of new pollution should be conducted in parallel with the tackling of traditional problems. "The protection of the environment is a long-term and arduous task, and we must continue to forge ahead in this regard."

"We must fully and accurately follow the principles of fighting pollution in a precise, scientific and lawful manner, so as to promote the greening and low-carbon transitioning of the economy and society," he said.

President Xi Jinping said on Thursday that China's military should improve its strategic capabilities in emerging spheres, during a meeting with lawmakers from the nation's armed forces.

Xi, who is also general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, told national legislators from the People's Liberation Army and the People's Armed Police Force that strategic capabilities in emerging spheres new frontiers originating from innovation and applications of science and technology are closely related to the country's socioeconomic development, national security and military power, and are of great significance to modernization efforts and national rejuvenation.

The CPC Central Committee has called for the accelerated growth of new quality productive forces since the 20th CPC National Congress, and that provides valuable opportunities for the building of strategic capabilities in emerging spheres, Xi said, asking the armed forces to integrate the new quality productive forces and new-type combat power and strengthen their mutual development.